---
tags: meeting notes
---

# 2020-06-03 Casey/Joy

haven't seen an archive like that yet

especially for GRP

a roadmap to resistance
the manuals for people who fairly early on are being thoughtful about challenging power structures

i could see it going so many different ways
would be happy to work on it over time

recruiting help of a professional archivist or librarian

someone at NYU, would they take over, house, label. could do it on your own.

could be a project of institute or GRP. reach out to other archivists. a great thing to a grad research assistant to do. do you have any that haven't been digitized yet?

love sources like this, and know many who would be interested in sources like this. they're not standalone. names or authors and contributors. where those people are five or ten years later. change over time. how the manuals might change over time.

---

miriam posner, one of the few people who is an expert, enthusiastic approachable aware of working with digital archives. thinking about ways they might be meaningful to different audiences and users. how might you teach with this? a college professor? how might researchers use it? happy to connect you. know her and her work. into digital methods, learned a lot about how to go to a physical archive, take photos, process that data.

hnet - history network. h-net.org -- humanities and social sciences online. when looking for GRA for GRP, they have a robust mailing list with subnetworks h-scinetmed, subgroups for history, might be one for rad history or student activism.

sharing with wider group of people who might be interested. "hey, this thing exists! what's interesting to you? if you decide to use it I would love to hear how." h-net for archivists and librarians. if you have something like this in your collection.

---

so deeply appreciate thoughtfulness, what are ethics, power in naming and aggregating, who's contributing and maintaining

it's a lot of the conversation, I know across institute Sarah and I have been having convos about oral histories

how do you do an oral history that's not just extractive, but creating utility, meaning, or sense of purpose for the purpose with whom you're speaking or working

as a historian, the field is very racist and sexist. archives are records of power. who has the resources to write and have literacy. what does it mean then to look in unusual places for archives, but there's still fundamental issue of equity and power that lots of historians have a convo on.

"you're at yale, you can go to any archive you want." we're told to base our projects around archives, but that's very bounding and has all kinds of power embedded.

super excited and so happy that you're thinking about these things.

firm believe in change we want to see in terms of how research is done and what it means. great opportunity to document and say: this is how you build an archive ethically.

not a sense of reinventing the wheel but wouldn't it be great if incoming college students knew there's a long history that could be mobilized.

we haven't made it explicit in our convo, but moment when you start college is such a transitional time, for those of us who get to do that. big possibility to be exposed to ideas. 

need to start teaching GRP to kindergarten and up. GRP is never made explicit. possibility of exposure. think in terms of messaging. i have a workstudy job, i'm here to work and get a degree and pay off my loans. i wish i started sooner. these guides get at the question of how you get people to think about power and oppression. clearly it was relevant to me but i thought it wasn't.

not just a form of communication, but there's 

how did i end up at dartmouth?? such a conservative place. i know the steps that got me there. I knew I'm not that person, but. I was very aware of the conservative newspaper on campus. 

oral histories with subset of people who worked on it, what you thought you were doing, how did it affect you later on.

anchor archive taxonomy.