---
tags: disorientations weekly, meeting notes
---

# Disorientations Weekly 2020-07-21

8pm EST via Jitsi

**JOIN CALL**: https://meet.jit.si/DisorientationsWeekly

(*Zoom backup, if needed*: https://nyu.zoom.us/j/96488511351?pwd=Y2hzVElQQW5WSGhYelVNcW03OWJkUT09)

**Attending**: Joanne, Matt, Casey

**Facilitator**: Casey

**Notetakers**: Casey

## Agenda
- **Intros** (name, pronouns) [if needed]
- **Check-in question** [4m]
    - In a word or two, how are you feeling?
        - tired, brain fried
    - ~~5 minute reading group~~ (Skipped because we were brain fried, but should try this something (-: )
        - Scroll to a random location on the homepage and click (don't think about it!)
        - Read for 3.5 minutes
        - Discuss for 1.5 minutes

### Discussion Items
- **OurNetworks** - [15m]
    - Start a doc for this?
        - Joanne is in
        - How many people tend to show up? How do you deal with that on Zoom?
        - Make something together, a zine?
        - Maintenance/archival care
        - If we're creating activities or access -- what are those interactions? And dedicate some time to creating?
    - Group Bio
        - Put something together
    - Honoraria
    - Format
        - [Reached out to Omeka](https://forum.omeka.org/t/learning-omeka-s-beginner-workshops-guides/11493) and found other materials on YouTube
- **Open Collective** - [5m]
    - Should we start a place to put funds?
    - Will receive small honoraria from OurNetworks?
    - What structures/agreements do we need in place to feel good about managing funds?
        - If it's too little to qualify then maybe doesn't make sense
        - Some clear structure, in person workshops could have materials but probably no costs online
- **Planning some collab work sessions** [5m]
    - Want to lead one of these?
    - Potential topics:
        - **Envisioning/co-designing what a dream version of the site/project looks like**
            - Thinking about different kinds of real architecture and types of archives that exist, collaging blueprints
            - Send link to Laurel's piece on What If A Website Were A House
            - Utopian floorplan collaged with intentional communities and activist spaces -- could be generative and more fun than collaging UX
        - Mission/Values/About Us
        - Opportunity Mapping (Funding, Collab, etc.)
        - Others?
            - Could treat these things as a meta exercise, if we're presenting to a group at Our Networks, "if you're starting a project, here's how you think about group identity or designing new features"
            - Joanne experience around this?
                - Facilitate a lot of workshops
                - Presentation as a bit of a forcing function to put things down
                - Visual language of the website
- **[Ways To Participate](/nr0UAqj_TDGeFe7ibj88jA) doc** - [5m]
    - Something to keep working on
    - Ongoing care and maintenance
    - We're peripheral people caring
- **Next Meeting** - [1m]
    - Tues 7/28 at 7pm
    - 
### For next time...

Skipped these items

- **Blogging/Tweeting Changelog** - [5m]
    - Proposal: update the blog and twitter when we:
        - update/change collection
        - update/change the site
        - post meeting notes
        - have cool links to share 
    - Action: Casey to update retroactively
- **Comms with student activist groups** - [5m]
    - Tracker of who will have pubs in September?
    - "user research" type questions/conversations -- in addition to seeking interest in the archive/collaborating/pandemic edition, schedule some calls to ask very openly: what do people actually want/need?
- **Check Out** - [4m]
    - What do you want to do differently next time?

### Followups
- Included a Zoom backup link for future meetings in case we have A/V issues with Jitsi
- Any additional thoughts from Joanne on Eyebeam?
- Casey check-in with Emma on posting notes

## Decisions
- Pending but seems like a good: Use rest of the summer as working sessions alternating between OurNetwork Workshop and Imagining Future Site -- with a few minutes for updates

## Next Steps
- [x] Casey post meeting notes
- [x] Casey ask OurNetworks "How many people tend to show up? How do you deal with that on Zoom? More info on who's attending."
- [ ] Casey respond to Sharon Leon about Omeka workshop materials/collab
- [x] Casey check if OpenCollective has minimums
- [x] Casey start a doc for OurNetworks and send it around - Working sessions, timeline, and todo list 
- [x] Casey start "Workshopping The Site in an abstract way" doc